# Recycling-simplified
As one element of sustainable development, achieving a healthy and sustainable waste management and recycling system cannot be completed without successfully segregating recyclable material from households. Statistics show that most recyclable items are disposed of improperly thereby hastening environmental degradation and wasting resources. There is usually no streamlined coordination between recyclers and households so that recyclers sometimes perform work based upon inconsistent collection schedules manual coordination, resulting in lower participation and engagement from the public.
This project aims to develop a web-based interface between households and recycling collectors located nearby in an effort to optimize the collection process and motivate people to recycle. A very straightforward and user-friendly interface, users will be able to create accounts, keep track of their recyclable materials, and provide a simple notify when they think they have enough for a pickup. At the same time, collectors will be able to login to a central database of available recyclable materials in their area. As soon as a sufficient volume of recyclables becomes ready, collectors will be notified in real time and can initiate a collection event. Collectors can then announce their collection dates to all users in that region, thus motivating even more households to join in by collecting any other materials they have amassed.
One interesting feature of the platform is the incorporation of a transparent pricing mechanism. At the time of the request for collection, the collector can provide prices for the recyclables allowing the users to see directly the value of their materials, thus enhancing their motivation to recycle. This feature provides financial incentives while creating transparency and trust between collectors and users.
The website integrates a responsive design, notification systems, geo-location features, and updated communication methods between users and collectors. Furthermore, the technical feasibility and scalability of this platform is one of its strong features, employing widely available web technologies for support across different geographic areas when demand arises. 
